---
title: Change Management Policy
description: Code Town Change Management Policy
template: doc
---

## Purpose and Scope

The purpose of this Change Management Policy is to establish a standardized
approach for managing changes to Code Townâ€™s information systems and
infrastructure.

This policy applies to all employees, contractors, and third-party providers
involved in initiating, approving, or implementing changes within Code Town.

## Policy Statements: Our Commitments

The following policy statements outline our approach to change request,
approval, implementation, and review.

### Change Management Process and Documentation

All changes to information systems, network devices, applications, data
structures, and facilities must follow a standardized change management process.
This process includes formal request, assessment, approval, testing,
implementation, and review stages.

All change requests must be formally documented, including:

- Author
- Approver
- Description and justification of the change

Changes are classified based on their potential impact and risk (e.g., low,
medium, high), which will determine the level of scrutiny required.

A separate, streamlined process is defined for emergency changes, with
appropriate documentation and approvals.

### Approval

Changes require approval by appropriate personnel based on their classification
and potential impact. The approval process maintains segregation of duties.

### Testing and Implementation

All changes undergo testing in a non-production environment before
implementation. Test results require documentation and approval before
proceeding to production.

Only authorized personnel may implement changes, following the approved plan and
schedule.

Development and production environments are kept separate to reduce the risk of
unauthorized changes.

### Monitoring, Review, and Continuous Improvement

All changes are logged and monitored to maintain an audit trail. Significant
changes undergo post-implementation reviews to verify success and identify
issues or lessons learned.

The change management process is subject to regular review and improvement based
on feedback and lessons learned.

### Access Control and Security

Access to implement changes is restricted to authorized personnel only. Access
rights for change implementation undergo regular review and updates.

The change management process integrates with the configuration management
system to maintain accurate tracking of system configurations.

### Communication and Vendor Management

All relevant stakeholders are informed of significant changes before
implementation.

Vendor or third-party implemented changes must adhere to this policy and are
subject to the same level of scrutiny and control.

## Compliance and Enforcement

Compliance with this policy is mandatory for all employees, contractors, and
third parties with access to Code Town's data.

In rare cases, business needs, local laws, or regulations may require
exceptions. Management will approve any exceptions and define alternative
solutions.

Non-compliance may lead to disciplinary action, including termination, as per
Code Town's policies.

## Policy Review and Maintenance

This policy will be reviewed annually or when significant changes occur to
maintain its continuing suitability, adequacy, and effectiveness.
