benefits.md, before:

These guidelines will evolve over time. As written they are heavily influenced
by [GitLab's handbook](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/).

# Introduction

Benefits are currently written US-centric as all Shorebird employees currently
reside in the US. We may adapt offered benefits in country/region specific
manners as we learn to employ persons there.

## Spending Company Money

Shorebird will pay for the items you need to get your job done. We will provide
you equipment when you start and you will also be provided a company card
through which to order things needed to advance the company.

In most cases, your time is by far the companies largest expense. For a sense
of scale: engineers in the US cost ~1k per workday, so if you're spending <1k to
advance the company more than a day forward, that's likely the right call.

### Spending Guidelines

1. Spend company money like it is your own money. No, really. We hired you
   because we believe you make good decisions. That includes with money.
2. You don't have to ask permission before making purchases in the interest of
   the company. If you're in doubt, just ping Eric.
3. It is generally easiest and fastest for you to make any purchases for office
   supplies yourself and expense them.
4. You may privately use Shorebird property, a laptop for example, to check
   your private e-mails or watch a movie as long as it does not violate the law,
   harm Shorebird, or interfere with Intellectual Property.
5. If you make a purchase that will cost Shorebird $1000 USD per item (or over),
   this is classified as company property, you will be required to return the
   item(s) if you leave the company.

Any non-company expenses should not be paid with a company credit card, but
sometimes mistakes happen. We use Ramp and it has tools to help you reimburse
the company for accidental personal expenses.

## Compensation and Equity

Shorebird has so far only hired for "Founding" roles where we recognize that
you're taking on a significant set of risk and responsibility. Our compensation
for Founding roles have targeted >90th percentile equity and 70th percentile
cash compensation.  We have used a variety of benchmarking services (pave.com,
levels.fyi) to help us match market rates. We expect this balance will
necessarily shift as we grow as a company.

In alignment with our remote-only approach, we have thus far chosen to adjust
pay based only on country rather than city level location.  The belief being
that different countries have different "social contracts" for who pays for
what, but that the work we are doing is the same regardless of where one might
chose to live within a country.

## Paid Time Off

Shorebird has a flexible PTO policy up to 10 contiguous days without asking and
we encourage everyone to step away from the keyboard for at least 10 days per
calendar year. We care about impact on the company and our users, not your time
at keyboard; taking time for ourselves is an important part of ensuring our time
working can be productive.

We currently observe 11 public holidays. The official list is kept in Rippling.

So far we've had very few times where we've needed to work late nights, weekends
or holidays, but it there will be inevitable fires and disruptions as product
usage grows. It's important to rest and recharge when we can. This is a many
year journey we're on together.

## All Remote

Shorebird is an all-remote company. We do not have an office. We endeavor to
eventually hire all over the globe. Currently all employees are based in the US
and within GMT-5 to GMT-8. You're welcome to work wherever you like (do let us
know so we can send taxes to the right place).

## Travel

We try to gather for a week, 2-4 times a year as a whole company. For such
gatherings, of course, Shorebird covers all travel expenses. So far we've
traveled to Chicago and San Francisco.

## Health Insurance

Shorebird offers competitive healthcare plans for all US employees and
dependents, including dental and vision. For 2023, we are covering 95% of
premiums for employees and 50% of premiums for dependents. Our current provider
is Blue Cross Blue Shield, brokered through Rippling.com.

## 401k

Shorebird provides a 401k plan for all US employees with 4% employer match.
Our current provider is Guideline, brokered through Rippling.com.

## Parental Leave

Shorebird provisions for Parental Leave which may apply to team members but this
may vary depending on local country laws. Currently this section is written
US-centric as all Shorebird employees currently reside in the US.

Shorebird provides 16 weeks of paid parental leave for any active team member
(regardless of gender) who becomes a parent through childbirth or adoption while
working at Shorebird. The entire 16 week balance must be used within 12 months
of the birth or adoption.

As we've not yet had a team member take parental leave, so I'm sure there are
more details to cover when we get there.

## Life Insurance

We provide automatic 50k life insurance for all employees, with supplemental
insurance available through our provider, Beam.

## Short-term / Long-term Disability

We are unable to offer short or long term disability insurance at this time.
We've been told we must exist as a company for 2 years before we can offer
disability insurance. We'll update this section when we have more information.

Commit message:

docs: add a section on travel booking tips

benefits.md, after:

These guidelines will evolve over time. As written they are heavily influenced
by [GitLab's handbook](https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/).

# Introduction

Benefits are currently written US-centric as all Shorebird employees currently
reside in the US. We may adapt offered benefits in country/region specific
manners as we learn to employ persons there.

## Spending Company Money

Shorebird will pay for the items you need to get your job done. We will provide
you equipment when you start and you will also be provided a company card
through which to order things needed to advance the company.

In most cases, your time is by far the companies largest expense. For a sense
of scale: engineers in the US cost ~1k per workday, so if you're spending <1k to
advance the company more than a day forward, that's likely the right call.

### Spending Guidelines

1. Spend company money like it is your own money. No, really. We hired you
   because we believe you make good decisions. That includes with money.
2. You don't have to ask permission before making purchases in the interest of
   the company. If you're in doubt, just ping Eric.
3. It is generally easiest and fastest for you to make any purchases for office
   supplies yourself and expense them.
4. You may privately use Shorebird property, a laptop for example, to check
   your private e-mails or watch a movie as long as it does not violate the law,
   harm Shorebird, or interfere with Intellectual Property.
5. If you make a purchase that will cost Shorebird $1000 USD per item (or over),
   this is classified as company property, you will be required to return the
   item(s) if you leave the company.

Any non-company expenses should not be paid with a company credit card, but
sometimes mistakes happen. We use Ramp and it has tools to help you reimburse
the company for accidental personal expenses.

## Compensation and Equity

Shorebird has so far only hired for "Founding" roles where we recognize that
you're taking on a significant set of risk and responsibility. Our compensation
for Founding roles have targeted >90th percentile equity and 70th percentile
cash compensation. We have used a variety of benchmarking services (pave.com,
levels.fyi) to help us match market rates. We expect this balance will
necessarily shift as we grow as a company.

In alignment with our remote-only approach, we have thus far chosen to adjust
pay based only on country rather than city level location. The belief being
that different countries have different "social contracts" for who pays for
what, but that the work we are doing is the same regardless of where one might
chose to live within a country.

## Paid Time Off

Shorebird has a flexible PTO policy up to 10 contiguous days without asking and
we encourage everyone to step away from the keyboard for at least 10 days per
calendar year. We care about impact on the company and our users, not your time
at keyboard; taking time for ourselves is an important part of ensuring our time
working can be productive.

We currently observe 11 public holidays. The official list is kept in Rippling.

So far we've had very few times where we've needed to work late nights, weekends
or holidays, but it there will be inevitable fires and disruptions as product
usage grows. It's important to rest and recharge when we can. This is a many
year journey we're on together.

## All Remote

Shorebird is an all-remote company. We do not have an office. We endeavor to
eventually hire all over the globe. Currently all employees are based in the US
and within GMT-5 to GMT-8. You're welcome to work wherever you like (do let us
know so we can send taxes to the right place).

## Travel

We try to gather for a week, 2-4 times a year as a whole company. For such
gatherings, of course, Shorebird covers all travel expenses. So far we've
traveled to Chicago and San Francisco.

### Tips for booking travel

- Use your company card for all travel expenses when possible.
- Rental cars are rarely worth it. Uber/Lyft is usually cheaper/better (even
  for 1+ hour rides).
- Book hotels and flights _directly_ with the hotel/airline. It's usually
  cheaper and you get better service. The various booking sites are sometimes
  cheaper but non-refundable. (Most are effectively SEO/marketing companies that
  take a majority cut of the booking and result in the hotel/airline not being
  able to adjust your reservation or refund you since they themselves only got
  a small cut of the booking.)
- Book refundable flights. It's usually only $100 more for US travel and allows
  us to adjust plans without losing the entire ticket cost.
- Airbnb can often get a nice place for cheaper than individual hotel rooms if
  you're interested in sharing a house with others.

## Health Insurance

Shorebird offers competitive healthcare plans for all US employees and
dependents, including dental and vision. For 2023, we are covering 95% of
premiums for employees and 50% of premiums for dependents. Our current provider
is Blue Cross Blue Shield, brokered through Rippling.com.

## 401k

Shorebird provides a 401k plan for all US employees with 4% employer match.
Our current provider is Guideline, brokered through Rippling.com.

## Parental Leave

Shorebird provisions for Parental Leave which may apply to team members but this
may vary depending on local country laws. Currently this section is written
US-centric as all Shorebird employees currently reside in the US.

Shorebird provides 16 weeks of paid parental leave for any active team member
(regardless of gender) who becomes a parent through childbirth or adoption while
working at Shorebird. The entire 16 week balance must be used within 12 months
of the birth or adoption.

As we've not yet had a team member take parental leave, so I'm sure there are
more details to cover when we get there.

## Life Insurance

We provide automatic 50k life insurance for all employees, with supplemental
insurance available through our provider, Beam.

## Short-term / Long-term Disability

We are unable to offer short or long term disability insurance at this time.
We've been told we must exist as a company for 2 years before we can offer
disability insurance. We'll update this section when we have more information.
