src/content/docs/Company/community.md, before:

---
title: Community
description: Shorebird in the Flutter Community
template: doc
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

The Flutter Community is something that we deeply value and aim to help build
and grow. We do this by not just building products but also being active members
in the worldwide community via online and in person mediums.

## Shorebird Discord

Shorebird uses Discord for (almost) all public & private communications. You can
join it at https://discord.gg/shorebird.

On the Shorebird Discord we group channels:

- Public (Publicly read/writeable)
- Customers (Private between us and individual customers)
- Partners (Private between us and companies we partner with)
- External (Publicly readable, Shorebird writeable)
- Internal (Shorebird private)

We intentionally co-locate our private communications in the same app as our
public customers use. This makes it easy to chat with our customers directly
every day, and helps us make sure we're fixing things they care about.

There are trade-offs with this approach.

One tradeoff is it makes it easier to accidentally post something private in a
public space. One of the ways we try to avoid this is by defaulting to public.
With few exceptions, we try to do everything in the public, thus reducing risks
of things "accidentally" being public.

Another potential downside is that as we've grown the chatter and support burden
can be difficult. You should feel empowered to mute as much of Discord as you
need to do get your job done.

### Discord Bots

One key feature of Discord that we take advantage of are bots. They allow for
some key functionality to ensure we can run a good online space for everyone
involved.

- Translator - With customers all over the world we can't rely on everyone being
  able to, or being comfortable with, speaking English. In order to help this we
  have a Translator Bot which is in all of our channels to allow for easily
  translation from any language to English and back as needed. There are also
  specific language channels in an "Auto-Translate" section which are setup for
  places where we see a concentration of customers.
- Mentions - This is actually two bots which both post to the #mentions channel.
  They troll Twitter/X and BlueSky for mentions of Shorebird so we can keep up
  with whats going on in the community.
- AutoMod - This is just a built in part of Discord which we have configured. It
  can auto flag messages that trip its spam, flagged words, etc lists and will
  post them to a private channel for our admins to determine if it should be
  posted.

## Flutter / Dart Discord Servers

If you're seeking more interaction with the Flutter community, here is a list of
other Flutter Discords which might be of use:

- Shorebird: https://discord.gg/shorebird
- Flutter (Google) Contributor's:
  https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Chat.md
- rFlutterDev: https://discord.com/invite/rflutterdev
- Dart Community: https://discord.com/invite/Qt6DgfAWWx
- WidgetBook: https://discord.com/invite/XxJGhvWzK3
- Bloc: https://discord.gg/bloc
- Blue Fire (Flame Engine): https://discord.com/invite/pxrBmy4
- Invertase: https://discord.com/invite/C9aK28N

## Talks & Events

We try to participate in various Flutter community events and conferences. We
are willing and able to sponsor events. Please reach out to
marketing@shorebird.dev if interested.

The list of events below include ones that we have participated in and/or
sponsored.

### Upcoming Events

- DevFest Ahmedabad, Ahmedabad, November 15, 2025
- FlutterCon, Bangalore, December 14, 2025

### Past Events

- FlutterBytes, Nigeria, October 31 - November 1, 2025
- FlutterCon Europe 2025, Berlin, September 24-26
- FlutterCon USA 2025, New York, June 25-26 2025
- Google Cloud Next 2025, Las Vegas, April 9-11 2025
- Flutteristas Conference 2025, Online, April 5 2025
- Flutter Conf LatAM 2024, Arequipa, Peru, October 29-30 2024
- FlutterCon USA 2024, New York, September 19-20 2024
- Observable Flutter #46, Online, June 27 2024
  - [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVRRUY0f0ko)
- Full Stack Flutter 2024, Online, May 28-29 2024
  - [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LPS0V3RbxDg)
  - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CLHTg94HIFZ41mj9EeQ-wW7bbMXSdoG4LSBNiUpFO20/edit)
- Google I/O 2024 Meetup, Mountain View
- Sao Paulo Flutter Meetup April 2024
  - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cr80azyQqhZSP6UfHJG6w1ZncTWPSpsumjUOqv3DBx0/edit)
- FlutterCon EU 2023
  - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MlJut_BIdqY6VjR-ota5pZ2lGw7ROWX-wRwTERKiRnQ/edit)
- Flutter & Friends 2023
  - [Slides](https://github.com/felangel/flutter_friends_talk)
- Flutter Chicago August 2023
- Google I/O 2023 Meetup

Commit message:

chore: update company name across pages (#158)
* chore: updating company name across pages

* more updates

* more updates. through expenses

* updates through offboarding

* updates through marketing

* final pass at updates

* spelling

* spelling

src/content/docs/Company/community.md, after:

---
title: Community
description: Our philosophy behind the involvement in the Flutter Community
template: doc
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

The Flutter Community is something that we deeply value and aim to help build
and grow. We do this by not just building products but also being active members
in the worldwide community via online and in person mediums.

## Discord

We use Discord for (almost) all public & private communications. You can join it
at https://discord.gg/shorebird.

On the Discord Server we group channels:

- Public (Publicly read/writeable)
- Customers (Private between us and individual customers)
- Partners (Private between us and companies we partner with)
- External (Publicly readable, Employee writeable)
- Internal (Employee only)

We intentionally co-locate our private communications in the same app as our
public customers use. This makes it easy to chat with our customers directly
every day, and helps us make sure we're fixing things they care about.

There are trade-offs with this approach.

One tradeoff is it makes it easier to accidentally post something private in a
public space. One of the ways we try to avoid this is by defaulting to public.
With few exceptions, we try to do everything in the public, thus reducing risks
of things "accidentally" being public.

Another potential downside is that as we've grown the chatter and support burden
can be difficult. You should feel empowered to mute as much of Discord as you
need to do get your job done.

### Discord Bots

One key feature of Discord that we take advantage of are bots. They allow for
some key functionality to ensure we can run a good online space for everyone
involved.

- Translator - With customers all over the world we can't rely on everyone being
  able to, or being comfortable with, speaking English. In order to help this we
  have a Translator Bot which is in all of our channels to allow for easily
  translation from any language to English and back as needed. There are also
  specific language channels in an "Auto-Translate" section which are setup for
  places where we see a concentration of customers.
- Mentions - This utilizes [Octolens](https://octolens.com) to search for
  mentions of us as a company/product out on the web and alert us to when we are
  part of the conversation.
- AutoMod - This is just a built in part of Discord which we have configured. It
  can auto flag messages that trip its spam, flagged words, etc lists and will
  post them to a private channel for our admins to determine if it should be
  posted.

## Flutter / Dart Discord Servers

If you're seeking more interaction with the Flutter community, here is a list of
other Flutter Discords which might be of use:

- Shorebird: https://discord.gg/shorebird
- Flutter (Google) Contributor's:
  https://github.com/flutter/flutter/blob/master/docs/contributing/Chat.md
- rFlutterDev: https://discord.com/invite/rflutterdev
- Dart Community: https://discord.com/invite/Qt6DgfAWWx
- WidgetBook: https://discord.com/invite/XxJGhvWzK3
- Bloc: https://discord.gg/bloc
- Blue Fire (Flame Engine): https://discord.com/invite/pxrBmy4
- Invertase: https://discord.com/invite/C9aK28N

## Talks & Events

We try to participate in various Flutter community events and conferences. We
are willing and able to sponsor events. Please reach out to
marketing@shorebird.dev if interested.

The list of events below include ones that we have participated in and/or
sponsored.

### Upcoming Events

- DevFest Ahmedabad, Ahmedabad, November 15, 2025
- FlutterCon, Bangalore, December 14, 2025

### Past Events

- FlutterBytes, Nigeria, October 31 - November 1, 2025
- FlutterCon Europe 2025, Berlin, September 24-26
- FlutterCon USA 2025, New York, June 25-26 2025
- Google Cloud Next 2025, Las Vegas, April 9-11 2025
- Flutteristas Conference 2025, Online, April 5 2025
- Flutter Conf LatAM 2024, Arequipa, Peru, October 29-30 2024
- FlutterCon USA 2024, New York, September 19-20 2024
- Observable Flutter #46, Online, June 27 2024
  - [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVRRUY0f0ko)
- Full Stack Flutter 2024, Online, May 28-29 2024
  - [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LPS0V3RbxDg)
  - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1CLHTg94HIFZ41mj9EeQ-wW7bbMXSdoG4LSBNiUpFO20/edit)
- Google I/O 2024 Meetup, Mountain View
- Sao Paulo Flutter Meetup April 2024
  - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1cr80azyQqhZSP6UfHJG6w1ZncTWPSpsumjUOqv3DBx0/edit)
- FlutterCon EU 2023
  - [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1MlJut_BIdqY6VjR-ota5pZ2lGw7ROWX-wRwTERKiRnQ/edit)
- Flutter & Friends 2023
  - [Slides](https://github.com/felangel/flutter_friends_talk)
- Flutter Chicago August 2023
- Google I/O 2023 Meetup
